docs/prompts-codex.md, before:

---
title: 'Futuroptimist Codex Prompt'
slug: 'prompts-codex'
---

# Codex Automation Prompt

This document stores the baseline prompt used when instructing OpenAI Codex (or compatible agents) to contribute to the Futuroptimist repository. Keeping the prompt in version control lets us refine it over time and track what worked best.

```
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep the project healthy by making small, well-tested improvements.

CONTEXT:
- Follow the conventions in AGENTS.md and README.md.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files` and `pytest -q` both succeed.

REQUEST:
1. Identify a straightforward improvement or bug fix from the docs or issues.
2. Implement the change using the existing project style.
3. Update documentation when needed.
4. Run the commands listed above.

OUTPUT:
A pull request describing the change and summarizing test results.
```

Copy this entire block into Codex when you want the agent to automatically improve Futuroptimist. Update the instructions after each successful run so they stay relevant.

Commit message:

📝 : clarify codex automation prompt
what: mention secret scanning and commit style in codex prompt

why: keep automated contributors aligned with latest guidelines

how to test: pre-commit run --all-files && pytest -q

Refs: n/a

docs/prompts-codex.md, after:

---
title: 'Futuroptimist Codex Prompt'
slug: 'prompts-codex'
---

# Codex Automation Prompt

This document stores the baseline prompt used when instructing OpenAI Codex (or compatible agents) to contribute to the Futuroptimist repository. Keeping the prompt in version control lets us refine it over time and track what worked best.

```
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep the project healthy by making small, well-tested improvements.

CONTEXT:
- Follow the conventions in AGENTS.md and README.md.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files` and `pytest -q` both succeed.
- Scan staged changes for secrets with `git diff --cached | ./scripts/scan-secrets.py`.

REQUEST:
1. Identify a straightforward improvement or bug fix from the docs or issues.
2. Implement the change using the existing project style.
3. Update documentation when needed.
4. Run the commands listed above.
5. Commit with `emoji : summary` style and reference related issues when possible.

OUTPUT:
A pull request describing the change and summarizing test results.
```

Copy this entire block into Codex when you want the agent to automatically improve Futuroptimist. Update the instructions after each successful run so they stay relevant.
