docs/prompts/codex/physics.md, before:

---
title: 'Codex Physics Explainer Prompt'
slug: 'codex-physics'
---

# OpenAI Codex Physics Explainer Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to automatically expand Flywheel's physics documentation. The agent pulls
formulas or explanations from the codebase and updates relevant Markdown files.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Flywheel repository.

PURPOSE:
Enrich and clarify the physics documentation.

CONTEXT:
- Focus on improving the explainers in `docs/`.
- Follow [AGENTS.md](../../../AGENTS.md) and [README.md](../../../README.md).
- Ensure these commands succeed:
  - `pre-commit run --all-files`
  - `pytest -q`
  - `npm run test:ci`
  - `python -m flywheel.fit`
  - `bash scripts/checks.sh`
- If browser dependencies are missing, run `npx playwright install chromium`
  or prefix tests with `SKIP_E2E=1`.
- Cross-reference CAD dimensions where helpful.
- Verify core equations such as rotational kinetic energy `E = 1/2 I ω^2`, torque `τ = I α`,
  moment of inertia for an annular disk `I = 1/2 m (r_o^2 + r_i^2)`, and maximum
  hoop stress `σ_max = ((3 + ν)/8) ρ ω^2 r_o^2`. For a thin ring use
  `σ = ρ ω^2 r^2`.
  Here `I` is moment of inertia, `ω` angular velocity, `τ` torque, `α` angular
  acceleration, `m` mass, `r_o` outer radius, `r_i` inner radius, `ν` Poisson
  ratio, and `ρ` density. Use SI units (I in kg·m², ω in rad/s, α in rad/s²,
  τ in N·m, σ in Pa) and cite Hibbeler or Budynas & Nisbett for constants.

REQUEST:
1. Inspect physics-related docs under `docs/` for gaps, TODOs, or outdated formulas.
2. Add clear explanations or equations where needed.
3. Run the checks listed above.
4. Commit the changes with a concise message and open a pull request.

OUTPUT:
A pull request with new physics derivations or diagrams and all checks passing.
```

This keeps the physics guides fresh and consistent across updates.

## Upgrade Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to refine the physics explainer instructions.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Flywheel repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep physics prompt guidance accurate and clear.

CONTEXT:
- Follow `AGENTS.md` and `README.md`.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files`, `pytest -q`, `npm run test:ci`,
  `python -m flywheel.fit`, and `bash scripts/checks.sh` pass.
- Regenerate `docs/prompt-docs-summary.md` with
  `python scripts/update_prompt_docs_summary.py --repos-from \
  dict/prompt-doc-repos.txt --out docs/prompt-docs-summary.md`.
- Confirm any referenced equations—such as rotational kinetic energy `E = 1/2 I ω^2`,
   torque `τ = I α`, moment of inertia for an annular disk `I = 1/2 m (r_o^2 + r_i^2)`,
   and maximum hoop stress `σ_max = ((3 + ν)/8) ρ ω^2 r_o^2`—match standard physics
   texts.

REQUEST:
1. Review this file for outdated equations or guidance.
2. Update content and regenerate the summary.
3. Run the checks above.

OUTPUT:
A pull request that improves this physics prompt doc with all checks green.
```

Commit message:

✅ : – honor SKIP_E2E flag in e2e tests

docs/prompts/codex/physics.md, after:

---
title: 'Codex Physics Explainer Prompt'
slug: 'codex-physics'
---

# OpenAI Codex Physics Explainer Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to automatically expand Flywheel's physics documentation. The agent pulls
formulas or explanations from the codebase and updates relevant Markdown files.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Flywheel repository.

PURPOSE:
Enrich and clarify the physics documentation.

CONTEXT:
- Focus on improving the explainers in `docs/`.
- Follow [AGENTS.md](../../../AGENTS.md) and [README.md](../../../README.md).
- Ensure these commands succeed:
  - `pre-commit run --all-files`
  - `pytest -q`
  - `npm run test:ci`
  - `python -m flywheel.fit`
  - `bash scripts/checks.sh`
- If browser dependencies are missing, run `npx playwright install chromium`
  or prefix tests with `SKIP_E2E=1` (validated by `tests/test_skip_e2e_flag.py`).
- Cross-reference CAD dimensions where helpful.
- Verify core equations such as rotational kinetic energy `E = 1/2 I ω^2`, torque `τ = I α`,
  moment of inertia for an annular disk `I = 1/2 m (r_o^2 + r_i^2)`, and maximum
  hoop stress `σ_max = ((3 + ν)/8) ρ ω^2 r_o^2`. For a thin ring use
  `σ = ρ ω^2 r^2`.
  Here `I` is moment of inertia, `ω` angular velocity, `τ` torque, `α` angular
  acceleration, `m` mass, `r_o` outer radius, `r_i` inner radius, `ν` Poisson
  ratio, and `ρ` density. Use SI units (I in kg·m², ω in rad/s, α in rad/s²,
  τ in N·m, σ in Pa) and cite Hibbeler or Budynas & Nisbett for constants.

REQUEST:
1. Inspect physics-related docs under `docs/` for gaps, TODOs, or outdated formulas.
2. Add clear explanations or equations where needed.
3. Run the checks listed above.
4. Commit the changes with a concise message and open a pull request.

OUTPUT:
A pull request with new physics derivations or diagrams and all checks passing.
```

This keeps the physics guides fresh and consistent across updates.

## Upgrade Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to refine the physics explainer instructions.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Flywheel repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep physics prompt guidance accurate and clear.

CONTEXT:
- Follow `AGENTS.md` and `README.md`.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files`, `pytest -q`, `npm run test:ci`,
  `python -m flywheel.fit`, and `bash scripts/checks.sh` pass.
- Regenerate `docs/prompt-docs-summary.md` with
  `python scripts/update_prompt_docs_summary.py --repos-from \
  dict/prompt-doc-repos.txt --out docs/prompt-docs-summary.md`.
- Confirm any referenced equations—such as rotational kinetic energy `E = 1/2 I ω^2`,
   torque `τ = I α`, moment of inertia for an annular disk `I = 1/2 m (r_o^2 + r_i^2)`,
   and maximum hoop stress `σ_max = ((3 + ν)/8) ρ ω^2 r_o^2`—match standard physics
   texts.

REQUEST:
1. Review this file for outdated equations or guidance.
2. Update content and regenerate the summary.
3. Run the checks above.

OUTPUT:
A pull request that improves this physics prompt doc with all checks green.
```
