docs/prompts/codex/spellcheck.md, before:

---
title: 'Codex Spellcheck Prompt'
slug: 'codex-spellcheck'
---

# Codex Spellcheck Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to find and fix spelling mistakes in Markdown docs before opening a pull request.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep Markdown documentation free of spelling errors.

CONTEXT:
- Check all Markdown files using `pyspelling -c spellcheck.yaml`.
- Add unknown but legitimate words to
  [`.wordlist.txt`](../../../.wordlist.txt) and keep the entries
  alphabetically sorted.
- Follow [`AGENTS.md`](../../../AGENTS.md) and [`README.md`](../../../README.md).
  Ensure these commands succeed:

  ```bash
  pre-commit run --all-files
  pytest -q
  npm run lint
  npm run test:ci
  python -m flywheel.fit
  bash scripts/checks.sh
  ```
- Run `git diff --cached | ./scripts/scan-secrets.py` before committing.
- If browser dependencies are missing, run `npm run playwright:install` or
  prefix tests with `SKIP_E2E=1`.

REQUEST:
1. Run the spellcheck command and inspect the results.
2. Correct misspellings or update `.wordlist.txt` as needed.
3. Re-run `pyspelling` until it reports no errors.
4. Run all checks listed above.
5. Commit the changes with a concise message and open a pull request.

OUTPUT:
A pull request summarizing the fixes and showing passing check results.
```

Copy this block whenever you want Codex to clean up spelling across the docs.

## Upgrade Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to refine the spellcheck instructions.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep this spellcheck prompt accurate as tooling evolves.

CONTEXT:
- Follow `AGENTS.md` and `README.md`.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files`, `pytest -q`, `npm run lint`, `npm run test:ci`, and `python -m flywheel.fit` pass, along with `bash scripts/checks.sh`.
- Regenerate `docs/prompt-docs-summary.md` with
  `python scripts/update_prompt_docs_summary.py --repos-from \
  dict/prompt-doc-repos.txt --out docs/prompt-docs-summary.md`.
- Run `git diff --cached | ./scripts/scan-secrets.py` before committing.

REQUEST:
1. Review this file for outdated commands or paths.
2. Update content and regenerate the summary.
3. Run the checks above.

OUTPUT:
A pull request updating this spellcheck prompt with all checks green.
```

Commit message:

✅ : – honor SKIP_E2E flag in e2e tests

docs/prompts/codex/spellcheck.md, after:

---
title: 'Codex Spellcheck Prompt'
slug: 'codex-spellcheck'
---

# Codex Spellcheck Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to find and fix spelling mistakes in Markdown docs before opening a pull request.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep Markdown documentation free of spelling errors.

CONTEXT:
- Check all Markdown files using `pyspelling -c spellcheck.yaml`.
- Add unknown but legitimate words to
  [`.wordlist.txt`](../../../.wordlist.txt) and keep the entries
  alphabetically sorted.
- Follow [`AGENTS.md`](../../../AGENTS.md) and [`README.md`](../../../README.md).
  Ensure these commands succeed:

  ```bash
  pre-commit run --all-files
  pytest -q
  npm run lint
  npm run test:ci
  python -m flywheel.fit
  bash scripts/checks.sh
  ```
- Run `git diff --cached | ./scripts/scan-secrets.py` before committing.
- If browser dependencies are missing, run `npm run playwright:install` or
  prefix tests with `SKIP_E2E=1` (validated by `tests/test_skip_e2e_flag.py`).

REQUEST:
1. Run the spellcheck command and inspect the results.
2. Correct misspellings or update `.wordlist.txt` as needed.
3. Re-run `pyspelling` until it reports no errors.
4. Run all checks listed above.
5. Commit the changes with a concise message and open a pull request.

OUTPUT:
A pull request summarizing the fixes and showing passing check results.
```

Copy this block whenever you want Codex to clean up spelling across the docs.

## Upgrade Prompt
Type: evergreen

Use this prompt to refine the spellcheck instructions.

```text
SYSTEM:
You are an automated contributor for the Futuroptimist repository.

PURPOSE:
Keep this spellcheck prompt accurate as tooling evolves.

CONTEXT:
- Follow `AGENTS.md` and `README.md`.
- Ensure `pre-commit run --all-files`, `pytest -q`, `npm run lint`, `npm run test:ci`, and `python -m flywheel.fit` pass, along with `bash scripts/checks.sh`.
- Regenerate `docs/prompt-docs-summary.md` with
  `python scripts/update_prompt_docs_summary.py --repos-from \
  dict/prompt-doc-repos.txt --out docs/prompt-docs-summary.md`.
- Run `git diff --cached | ./scripts/scan-secrets.py` before committing.

REQUEST:
1. Review this file for outdated commands or paths.
2. Update content and regenerate the summary.
3. Run the checks above.

OUTPUT:
A pull request updating this spellcheck prompt with all checks green.
```
